# Song Recommendation System Using Data From Spotify
## Overview of the Project
As commonly defined, Recommender Systerm is a subclass of information filtering system that aims to predict the preference  of a specific user towards a particular service or item. This type of system are commonly used in commercial applications such as Netflix, E-commerce and many more. 
<br>
<br>Spotify, an audio streaming and media service provider, is a great example of a commercial application that uses a recommendation system. Despite its extremely complete system and algorithm, multiple userts still expresses their disbelief towards the song recommendations generated by Spotify. Thus, this project aims to formulate a Song Recommendation System using data from Spotify to predict a list of recommended songs based on a user's preference.
<br>
<br>
<br>
## Order of Notebooks
This repository contains the following:
<br>
<br> **1. data**
<br>This folder carries the raw datasets from Spotify-curated playlists and the users' playlists in JSON format. In total, there are more than 100,000 entries of songs from Spotify-curated playlists as basis for recommendations while playlists from three users were used where recommendations will be generated from for the completion of the project. 
<br>
<br> **2. audio_feature_extractor**
<br>This script assisted the extraction of the audio features from Spotify-curated playlists based on the URI that were used as factors for the project analyses. Environment variables and API keys must be setup to properly use this script.
<br>
<br> **3. recommendation_system**
<br>The main notebook that contains the overall project. This is where you may view the comprehensive breakdown of the project with its introduction, results, interpretation, and insights & conclusion.
<br>
<br> **4. requirements**
<br> This contains a list of all the packages used in the project notebook along with its specific versions.
<br>
<br> **5. track_extractor**
<br> This is a script which was used to extract the songs along with its basic details from specific Spotify-curated playlists. Environment variables and API keys must be setup to properly use this script.
<br>
<br> **6. user_extractor**
<br> This is a script used to extract the songs in the users playlist and their basic details such as song title, artist name, etc. Environment variables and API keys must be setup to properly use this script.
<br>
<br> **7. user_feature_extractor**
<br> The script used to extract the audio features in each users playlist based on the URI. Environment variables and API keys must be setup to properly use this script.